**Description:**

LAC+USC psychiatry residency program has 24 residents who rotate through the facility under Chief Resident Dr. Kelly Jones. Dr. Jones is responsible for creating the call schedule at the hospital. Up until this point, she has been creating each call schedule by a “guess and check” method in order to optimize resident’s requests while ensuring that each facility is covered at all times. Our current application takes in some of the specific restraints for a certain week, entered by Dr. Jones, and outputs the optimal schedule for the two-month block. This semester, we will continue to add constraints and optimize our algorithm. 
There are many scheduling softwares that are already in existence: When I Work, Jobber, Homebase, Planday. Most of these services cost money and are not tailored to a hospital’s needs. The end user of our system, Dr. Jones, will be able to create schedules that balance employee preferences and restrictions. Our system will be maintained by us throughout the year. We will provide updates that will include features to keep the system relevant, efficient, and bug-free. We will continue to be coding in React, JavaScript, Python, and SQL.

**Justification:**

This project has allowed and will continue to allow our team to demonstrate sufficient and working knowledge of the software and product development process. It allows us to get experience working on a product from beginning to end, from planning all the way to execution and making improvements. This will prepare us for the professional software engineering world where we would be working in large teams to deliver a product. Since we did not complete our project in CMSI 401, we would like to continue working on our application this semester until completion.
This project has required and will continue to require our use of knowledge from Data Structures, Algorithms, Interaction Design, Artificial Intelligence, and Cognitive Systems Design. The technical difficulty of this project is appropriate because the problem encompasses problems and projects we have solved in the past, such as Kirkman Schoolgirl, which will ensure that the level of difficulty is challenging. 
All 6 members of this team have completed 7 semesters at Loyola Marymount in the Computer Science program under the faculty and staff that will be assisting with this work. Given the classes taken, projects completed, connections made in the department, professional experience in internships over the summer, and work completed in CMSI 401, this team possesses all the necessary tools required to complete the project this semester and excel in doing so. We are excited to finish creating a product that will make a difference, make someone's life easier, and has the potential to grow. We are driven by knowing that Dr. Jones will employ our system to make her life easier.
