Description:

LAC+USC psychiatry residency program has 24 residents who rotate through the facility under Chief Resident Dr. Kelly Jones. Dr. Jones is responsible for creating the call schedule at the hospital. Up until this point, she has been creating each call schedule by a “guess and check” method in order to optimize resident’s requests while ensuring that each facility is covered at all times. Our application will take in the specific restraints for a certain week, entered by Dr. Jones, and output the optimal schedule for the two month block. The application will be scalable; it will eventually accommodate more employees and more restrictions if necessary. The application could also be re-usable for other industries, such as restaurants, offices, schools, etc.

There are many scheduling softwares that are already in existence: When I Work, Jobber, Homebase, Planday. Most of these services cost money and are not tailored to a hospitals needs. The end users of our system would be any employer who needs to create schedules that balance employee preferences and restrictions. Our system will be maintained by us throughout the year. We will provide updates that will include features to keep the system relevant, efficient, and bug-free. We will be coding in React, JavaScript, Python, and possibly SQL.

Justification:

This project allows our team to demonstrate sufficient and working knowledge of the software and product development process. It allows us to get experience working on a product from beginning to end, from planning all the way to execution and making improvements. This will prepare us for the professional software engineering world where we would be working in large teams to deliver a product.

This project will require us to use our knowledge from Data Structures, Algorithms, Interaction Design, Artificial Intelligence, and Cognitive Systems Design. The technical difficulty of this project is appropriate because the problem encompasses problems and projects we have solved in the past, such as Kirkman Schoolgirl, which will ensure that the level of difficulty is challenging but possible to accomplish during this semester. However, given that this project is interesting to us and has lots of opportunity for improvement, iteration, and scaling, we hope to extend into Spring 2020 to grow the products.

All 6 members of this team have completed 6 semesters at Loyola Marymount in the Computer Science program under the faculty and staff that will be assisting with this work. Given the classes taken, projects completed, connections made in the department, and professional experience in internships over the summer, this team possesses all the necessary tools required to complete the project and excel in doing so. We are excited to create a product that will make a difference, make someone's life easier, and has the potential to grow. We are driven by knowing that Dr. Jones and many others will potentially employ our system to make their lives easier.
